---
---

# Abstract
## Random Forest Classifier-Aided Candidate Selection of Photometrically Variable Milky Way Halo RR Lyrae in the NGVS Data Set

&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Under the standard model of Big Bang cosmology, the Lambda Cold Dark Matter (ðš²-CDM) model, astronomers have built an understanding of galactic halo structure from dwarf satellites forming fragments and streams. Dwarf satellites represent remnants of the cannibalism that is believed to have formed large galaxies such as the Milky Way. Astronomers initially identified dwarf spheroidal satellites but observed 1-2 orders of magnitude less than expected. Observations of these satellites caused a second concern as dwarf spheroidal satellites had circular velocities lower than fitting the ðš²-CDM model. In the last decade, studying these concerns has progressed as astronomers have discovered ultra-faint dwarf satellites, which tend to exhibit low aggregate luminosities and projected densities. Because of these features, astronomers must use RR Lyrae as stellar tracers to identify UFDs. I develop new catalogs of sparse multi-band and multi-epoch data suitable for time domain astronomy from the NGVS. The survey reaches a depth of g â‰ˆ 25.9 mag, meaning it reaches farther RR Lyrae in the Virgo Cluster foreground than ever before. I implement random forest classifier-aided candidate selection of RR Lyrae in the foreground of the Virgo Cluster sky area from the generated catalog. This project serves as a precursor to future LSST studies, which could detect almost all RR Lyrae to >350kpc, by developing an RR Lyrae candidate selection methodology and providing a new deep field of distant RR Lyrae. 
